<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en">
<head>
<title>Compiler Built-ins Detection Support Overview</title>
<style type="text/css">
table,
th,
td {
	border: 1px solid black;
}
th,
td {
	padding: 2pt;
}
</style>
</head>
<body>
	<h1>Compiler Built-ins Detection Support Overview</h1>
	<p>JSON Compilation Database Parser support can detect compiler-built-in include paths and preprocessor macros.
	</p>
	
	<h2>Invariant Built-ins Detection Support</h2>
	<p>The following table shows the compilers and their supported features detected.</p>
	<table id="overview_table" style="border-collapse:collapse">
	<thead>
	<tr>
	<th>Compiler</th>
	<th>Vendor</th>
	<th>Macros</th>
	<th>System<br/>include paths</th>
	<th>Local<br/>include paths</th>
	<th>MACOS Framework<br/>include paths</th>
	</tr>
	</thead>
	<tbody>
	<tr>
	<td>gcc</td>
	<td>GNU Project</td>
	<td>tested</td>
	<td>tested</td>
	<td>tested</td>
	<td>NYI <a href="#fw-help-gcc">[1]</a></td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
	<td>clang</td>
	<td>LLVM Project</td>
	<td>tested</td>
	<td>tested</td>
	<td>tested</td>
	<td>NYI <a href="#fw-help-clang">[2]</a></td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
	<td>cl</td>
	<td>Microsoft</td>
	<td>N/A</td>
	<td>N/A</td>
	<td>N/A</td>
	<td>N/A</td>
	</tr>
      </tbody>
      </table>
	<p>Support status above is either:</p>
	<dl>
	<dt>tested</dt><dd>detection is known to work</dd>
	<dt>implemented (impl)</dt><dd>support is implemented, but not (yet) known to work</dd>
	<dt>not yet implemented (NYI)</dt><dd>support is not implemented</dd>
	<dt>not available (N/A)</dt><dd>the compiler does not support detection (regarding the online docs only)</dd>
	</dl>

      <h3>Compilers supported through separate plug-ins</h3>
      <!-- extra compilers go here -->
      <anchor id="extra_detection_participant_builtins_list"/>

	<h2>Enhanced Built-ins Detection Support</h2>
	<p>Some compilers, mainly those of the GNU Compiler Collection and derivatives, report different built-ins
	depending on the arguments passed to the compiler. These arguments specify a non-default language level
	or specify non-standard default system include directories.
	The table below shows an overview of the supported compilers and the recognized command-line options.</p>
	<table id="overview_table_eh" style="border-collapse:collapse">
	<thead>
	<tr>
	<th>Compiler</th>
	<th>Vendor</th>
	<th>Language Standard<br/>options</th>
	<th>Non-Standard System<br/>include paths options</th>
    <th>Other options</th>
	</tr>
	</thead>
	<tbody>
	<tr>
	<td>gcc</td>
	<td>GNU Project</td>
	<td><code>-std=</code>, <code>-ansi</code>: tested</td>
	<td><code>--sysroot=</code>, <code>-isysroot=</code>, <code>--no-sysroot-prefix</code>: tested</td>
    <td><code>-fPIC</code>, <code>-fpic</code>, <code>-fPIE</code>, <code>-fpie</code>
    <code>-fstack-protector*</code>, <code>-march=</code>, <code>-march=</code>, <code>-mcpu=</code>,
    <code>-mtune=</code>, <code>-pthread</code>
    </td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
	<td>clang</td>
	<td>LLVM Project</td>
	<td><code>-std=</code>, <code>-ansi</code>: tested</td>
	<td><code>--sysroot=</code>, <code>-isysroot=</code>, <code>--no-sysroot-prefix</code>: tested</td>
    <td></td>
	</tr>
	</tbody>
	</table>
	<p>Remarks:</p>
	<ul style="list-style-type:none">
	<li id="fw-help-gcc">[1] Help wanted! To implement this, the output of <code>gcc -E -P -dM -Wp,-v emty.c</code>
	running	on OSX is needed.</li>
	<li id="fw-help-clang">[2] Help wanted! To implement this, the output of <code>clang -E -P -dM -Wp,-v emty.c</code>
	running	on OSX is needed.</li>
	</ul>

      <h3>Compilers supported through separate plug-ins</h3>
      <!-- extra compilers go here -->
      <anchor id="extra_detection_participant_builtins_enhanced_list"/>
</body>
</html>